README.md, before:

# Footnotes

### Easily insert numbered footnotes in a Roam page.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74436347/189387081-fbb7ef64-5fde-441b-97c4-0bc7bae3e520.png)

### [See changelog here for an overview of updates and new features](https://github.com/fbgallet/roam-extension-footnotes/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) 🆕

## Insert a footnote

Create footnotes in the same way that you can natively insert a new child block by simply typing the text after a double bracket: `((my note...`. You have only to choose the "Create as footnote" option in the autocomplete popup (Arrow up + Enter).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74436347/197252568-2788c73e-7ae1-48ca-8aa0-afe06750fe68.png)

Or run `Footnotes: Insert or remove footnote at current position` command, or press corresponding hotkeys (by default: `Cmd+Shift+f` on MacOS, `Ctrl+Shift+f` on Windows) at the location where you want to insert the note:

- a new block is created, under the header #footnotes (customizable, under a line or not) and focused, to enter the note,
- by default, the footnote will be opened in the right sidebar (🆕 in v.4: in the current view if the corresponding setting is disabled),
- if some text is selected when you press the hotkeys to insert the note, the text is automatically copied into the note (and the note is not opened in the sidebar, since its content is already defined),
- a numbered alias is inserted (in superscript as an option),
- all following notes on the page are automatically renumbered.

You can customize hotkeys for `Footnotes: Insert or remove footnote at current position` command, just like any other command from the command palette, either by searching for "footnotes hotkey" in the command palette, or at the bottom of the extension settings.

## Delete a footnote

Select, in the main text, the number of the note (the selection can be overflowing without problem, but it must contain at most one note number), then press hotkeys to insert/remove a footnote:

- the note block will be deleted,
- if there was some content in the note block, it will be inserted in the text body, in place of the alias,
  or you can choose to replace the alias by the note number in brackets (better for exporting) and keep the note block,
- all following notes on the page are automatically renumbered.

You can delete all footnotes on page in bulk (only the alias, the note blocks will note be deleted, since you can easily delete them at once) with `Footnotes: Warning, danger zone! Delete all footnotes on current page` command. It can be useful to export more easily its content to a classic document, since you can replace all alias by the number in brackets.

## Reorder / Renumber footnotes

If you move blocks or parts of text, or if you manually delete notes by mistake, you can reorder the list of notes and correct their numbering.
Simply run `Footnotes: Reorder footnotes on current page` command, from the command palette (Ctrl+P).

## SmartBlocks commands

You can insert or delete a footnote using SmartBlocks commands: `<%INSERTFOOTNOTE%>` and `<%DELETEFOOTNOTE%>`.
To delete a footnote, place the cursor just before the footnote number, search the SmartBlocks and click on its name in the autocomplete box (press enter doesn't work here if you are using superscript footnote, because of the #sup tag autocomplete box)

You will need to create SmartBlocks like this:

```
#SmartBlock Insert footnote
    - <%INSERTFOOTNOTE%>
#SmartBlock Delete footnote
    - <%DELETEFOOTNOTE%>

```

## Support my work

Building extensions for Roam represents a significant amount of work. If you want to encourage me to develop further and enhance them, you can [buy me a coffee ☕ here](https://buymeacoffee.com/fbgallet). Thanks in advance for your support! 🙏

---

### For any question or suggestion, DM me on **Twitter** or in Roam Slack and follow me to be informed of updates and new extensions : [@fbgallet](https://twitter.com/fbgallet).

You can also add issues directly in [Github here](https://github.com/fbgallet/roam-extension-footnotes/issues).

Commit message:

Added slash command and fixed small issue

README.md, after:

# Footnotes

### Easily insert numbered footnotes in a Roam page.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74436347/189387081-fbb7ef64-5fde-441b-97c4-0bc7bae3e520.png)

### [See changelog here for an overview of updates and new features](https://github.com/fbgallet/roam-extension-footnotes/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) 🆕

## Insert a footnote

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74436347/197252568-2788c73e-7ae1-48ca-8aa0-afe06750fe68.png)

Three different way to create a footnote:

1. Run `Footnotes: Insert or remove footnote at current position` command, or press corresponding hotkeys (by default: `Cmd+Shift+f` on MacOS, `Ctrl+Shift+f` on Windows) at the location where you want to insert the note.
2. Type the note text after a double bracket: `((my note...`. You have only to choose the "Create as footnote" option in the autocomplete popup (Arrow up + Enter).
3. (🆕 new in v.5) `/Insert footnote` slash command (just type `/foo`; note that slash command autocomplete works only after a space)

How it works:

- a new block is created, under the header #footnotes (customizable, under a line or not) and focused, to enter the note,
- by default, the footnote will be opened in the right sidebar (🆕 in v.4: in the current view if the corresponding setting is disabled),
- if some text is selected when you press the hotkeys to insert the note, the text is automatically copied into the note (and the note is not opened in the sidebar, since its content is already defined),
- a numbered alias is inserted (in superscript as an option),
- all following notes on the page are automatically renumbered.

You can customize hotkeys for `Footnotes: Insert or remove footnote at current position` command, just like any other command from the command palette, either by searching for "footnotes hotkey" in the command palette, or at the bottom of the extension settings.

## Delete a footnote

Select, in the main text, the number of the note (the selection can be overflowing without problem, but it must contain at most one note number), then press hotkeys to insert/remove a footnote:

- the note block will be deleted,
- if there was some content in the note block, it will be inserted in the text body, in place of the alias,
  or you can choose to replace the alias by the note number in brackets (better for exporting) and keep the note block,
- all following notes on the page are automatically renumbered.

You can also delete footnotes in bulk with `Footnotes: Warning, danger zone! Delete all footnotes on current page or selection` command. It can be useful to export more easily its content to a classic document, since you can replace all alias by the number in brackets.

## Reorder / Renumber footnotes

If you move blocks or parts of text, or if you manually delete notes by mistake, you can reorder the list of notes and correct their numbering.
Simply run `Footnotes: Reorder footnotes on current page` command, from the command palette (Ctrl+P).

## SmartBlocks commands

You can insert or delete a footnote using SmartBlocks commands: `<%INSERTFOOTNOTE%>` and `<%DELETEFOOTNOTE%>`.
To delete a footnote, place the cursor just before the footnote number, search the SmartBlocks and click on its name in the autocomplete box (press enter doesn't work here if you are using superscript footnote, because of the #sup tag autocomplete box)

You will need to create SmartBlocks like this:

```
#SmartBlock Insert footnote
    - <%INSERTFOOTNOTE%>
#SmartBlock Delete footnote
    - <%DELETEFOOTNOTE%>

```

### **How to support my work ?**

Become a [Github sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/fbgallet), [buy me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/fbgallet) or follow @fbgallet on [X](https://x.com/fbgallet), on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/fbgallet.bsky.social) or on [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@fbgallet)

You can report issues directly in [Github here](https://github.com/fbgallet/roam-extension-footnotes/issues).
